The Importance of Turning 50 50
Remember age 40 when all the talk was about being "over the hill?" Well, age 50, you might say, is over the hill, past the meadow, and on to bigger and better things on the other side. When you're over 50, you can leave many cares and worries behind and embrace life. Of course, new problems and ailments are bound to come your way, but that is the case no matter what your age. A person at age 50 can create better health habits and become even healthier than earlier in life. After all, "age is just a number."

50 Good Things About Turning 50 Years Old
Many people tell jokes about turning 50, but funny stuff aside, there are a lot of benefits, as well.

You're less fearful.
You're not afraid to have opinions.
You know yourself.
You have a greater appreciation of life.
It's easier to laugh at yourself.
It's easier to laugh at others.
It's easier to take life less seriously.
You stop caring what other people think.
You stop sweating the small stuff.
You have a lifetime of wisdom to help you make decisions.
You are more at peace.
You're less critical of your body and weight.
You know that eating right and exercise are the best medicine.
You embrace your imperfections.
You make jokes more often.
Senior woman lying on grass relaxing
Thinkstock
You get to use the excuse: "I'm set in my ways."
You have a reason for forgetting things.
You have a reason for losing things.
You have a reason for telling the same stories.
You can be as grumpy as you wish.
You can learn to dance.
You can learn to sing.
No one cares if you're a bad singer.
People expect you to be a bad dancer.
Your inner confidence shines.
You can go home early without offending anyone.
You can enjoy being settled in life.
With kids out of the house, you can be more spontaneous.
Your kids stop expecting big gifts from you.
AARP discounts are everywhere.
Other age-related discounts and free stuff for seniors.
Younger people will help you more.
You have more time to explore new hobbies.
You can wear red hats that don't match your clothes.
You can wear glitter or funny sweaters and laugh at yourself.
You can wear glitter or funny sweaters in public with pride.
You can go gray with your hair.
Retired life is just around the corner.
You have more time to relax.
Nap time is fun again.
Waking up too early means you get to watch the sunrise.
Resting feels natural.
You have license to buy more comfortable clothing.
People make fewer comparisons to younger folks.
You've seen amazing things that younger people have not.
You're older and wiser.
You can give good advice based on experience.
You have a better ability to let go.
You have better ability to forgive others.
You have better ability to forgive yourself.
Make Your Own Turning Fifty List
As you can see, there's an abundance of good things about turning 50, as long as you look for them. As you celebrate age 50 with a big birthday or a quiet celebration, make some lists of your own. From "50 things I know" to "50 things to be grateful for," the number has many possibilities.